good morning this is Duane today I'd
like to talk about pentatonic a
pentatonic scale
now a diatonic scale is the one you
learned when you took piano lessons or
that if you didn't take piano lessons
you've heard it it's it's a scale that
sounds small lots of diatonic major
scales made up of seven different notes
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and then that note is a
repeat of that note right the octave
note ok so that's a major diatonic scale
a minor diatonic scale would be like
this flat the 3rd and then on depending
on what kind of minor scale it is
there's three kinds of minor scales it
might go like that in any case we're not
talking about minor scale so there's
three kinds of minor scales there's a
natural minor there's a harmonic minor
and a melodic minor and we won't get
into that right now
but just suffice it to say there are
major scales there are minor scales all
made out of seven notes and then there's
chromatic scales which play every single
note and of course that has 12 1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 12 keys to all
different keys plus the octave note
right ok and then there's a whole tone
scale which skips every half tone scale
or chromatic scale is every half-step
right a whole tone scale is just what it
says you skip you always skip a note so
second
then you skip a key so you wouldn't play
that you play that whole step in up
above that is there and a whole step
above there that is there and then a
whole step above that is there so 1 2 3
4 5 6 that's a 6 note scale plus the
octave note isn't it ok so those are
some of the various kinds of scales that
you encounter our music now today we
want to talk about the pentatonic scale
in a sense it's the easiest of all
scales because it just has 5 notes it's
equivalent to if you played all the
Black Keys 3 4 5 that's a pentatonic
scale and if you just made your
composition out of the Black Keys
if it sounds a little oriental that's
why it does because you have that
typical sound but let's do it on the
white keys
the formulism whatever note you start on
it's a whole step above that then a
whole step above that and then the fifth
note of scale and the six note so the
first second third fifth and sixth note
of any major scale okay so if I if I'm
dealing with D flat I want the first
second third fifth six that would be the
D flat pentatonic scale the D pentatonic
scale would be first second third fifth
and six it has a sweet sound to it
doesn't it now let's go through all the
pentatonic scales a flat 1 2 3 5 6 e 1 2
3 5 6 F 1 2 3 5 6 G flat 1 2 3 5 6 G 1 2
3 5 6 a flat blue 2 3 5 6 8 1 2 3 5 6 B
flat 1 2 3 5 6 B 1 2 3 5 6 and that
brings us back to C ok now pling
playing the pentatonic scale is you get
some really nice sounds
see that was all pentatonic scale I'm
just using the notes 1 5 6 3 and I'm
kind of turning around there like that
if you want to learn to do that that's
how you do it you turn or turn around
the bottom nut then come down and turn
around the bottom out there okay
so there's lots of different sounds you
can make on a pentatonic scale and if
you choose to play on the black notes
and you can't on Black Keys I should say
then you can't make an error okay
because there's no no wrong notes if you
play nothing but black keys okay that's
it for today if you enjoy these piano
tips come on over to play piano comm and
sign up for our free piano tips so I
hope to see you there bye bye for now